Simlar stands for the best possible protection of your communication. Of course, this also applies to the protection of your data. Only the most necessary information for the full functionality of the app is stored. This is also only done for the duration of the usability of the function-dependent information. Communication with the Simlar servers is always encrypted and therefore protected against unauthorized access.
This privacy policy summarizes the points concerning your information.

1. your encrypted calls
Simlar guarantees the best possible encryption of the spoken word (voice calls) via the Simlar app. This is a tap-proof and encrypted system according to the current technical standard and to our knowledge.
Encryption takes place in real time within the app and the conversation is not recorded. The operators of the Simlar app and third parties have no possibility to decrypt the conversations of the app users or to trace the content. Only the caller and the called party can decrypt the conversation.
Data required for setting up the call is transmitted encrypted to the Simlar servers. For technical reasons (e.g. for error analysis) this data could also be stored on the servers.

2. linking the telephone number
For the full functionality of the app the user's phone number is required. The assigned Simlar ID is linked to the telephone number.
Without a link, it is technically impossible to use the Simlar app because it is needed to find known contacts.
The telephone number used for the link is only stored for the purpose of contact list synchronization and the functionality of the app. It is also not misused or used for advertising purposes.
We grant ourselves the best possible level of encryption.

3. data access of the app
The following data is required for the functionality of the app:

a) SMS access:
Only the Android app can access your SMS and only if you explicitly grant it permission to do so. The access to your SMS is done once during registration. After installation you will receive an SMS which checks the authenticity of the phone number and links the app with the phone number to which the SMS was sent.

b) Contact list:
If you grant the Simlar app access to your contact list, only the phone numbers of the contacts will be matched from this list. Names and other data are not matched.
This allows the app to recognize who in your contact list is also registered with the Simlar app. This is intended to make the app as easy as possible for the user to use and to enable easy contact with another Simlar user.
Simlar does not store the phone numbers of your contacts on the server.

c) Version number:
The version name and version number of the app are also transmitted to our servers. This is to ensure that we can individually optimize troubleshooting in case of problems.

d) Push notification ID:
The push notification ID is required so that the Simlar server can notify the app when you are called. This saves energy on your smartphone.
Under Android, the app can alternatively be operated with a permanent connection to the Simlar server. Then no data is transmitted to Google.

4. third party
Third party services (Apple, Google and Twilio) are used exclusively for sending push notifications and SMS messages. Their privacy policies apply.
Data will only be passed on to third parties to ensure the functionality of the App and never for other purposes (e.g. advertising).

5. log data
Log data is stored on the server for a maximum of 14 days, and this is only to facilitate troubleshooting, optimize the service and prevent misuse.

6. cooperation clause and crash notification
In case of crashes or program errors, there is the possibility within the app to voluntarily and explicitly agree to a transmission in form of a crash notification. In addition to the reason for the system error, personal data can also be transmitted (current state of the app at the time of the crash and the last log messages).
The transmission is encrypted on the Simlar servers. This voluntary support allows you to help us to further develop the app by giving us the opportunity to evaluate the errors.

7. general regulations
In all other respects, the provisions of the German Data Protection Act (BDSG) and the current ordinances and regulations of the Federal Republic of Germany apply - http://dejure.org/gesetze/BDSG

Further questions or suggestions?

8. data protection officer
This privacy statement is intended to explain the most important points about how we guarantee data protection
